The yellow warbler (Setophaga petechia) is a species of bird in the New World warbler family, 
Parulidae. It is the most widespread species in the diverse genus Setophaga, breeding in almost the 
whole of North America, the Caribbean, as well as northern South America. It has 35 subspecies, 
residing in various different habitats. Depending on the subspecies, the yellow warbler may be 
between 10 and 18 centimetres (3.9 and 7.1 in) long, with a wingspan from 16 to 22 centimetres (6.3 
to 8.7 in). It weighs 7 to 25 grams (0.2–0.9 oz). In winter, female and immature birds all have similarly 
greenish-yellow uppersides and are a duller yellow below, while males acquire breast and sometimes 
head coloration. This yellow warbler was photographed in the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge in New 
York City, United States. 
 
The French inventor Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot built the first steam-powered road vehicle in 1769, while 
the Swiss inventor François Isaac de Rivaz designed and constructed the first internal combustion-
powered automobile in 1808. The modern car—a practical, marketable automobile for everyday 
use—was invented in 1886, when the German inventor Carl Benz patented his Benz Patent-
Motorwagen. Commercial cars became widely available during the 20th century. The 
1901 Oldsmobile Curved Dash and the 1908 Ford Model T, both American cars, are widely considered 
the first mass-produced[3][4] and mass-affordable[5][6][7] cars, respectively. Cars were rapidly adopted in 
the US, where they replaced horse-drawn carriages.[8] In Europe and other parts of the world, 
demand for automobiles did not increase until after World War II.[9] In the 21st century, car usage is 
still increasing rapidly, especially in China, India, and other newly industrialised countries.[10][11] 
Cars have controls for driving, parking, passenger comfort, and a variety of lamps. Over the decades, 
additional features and controls have been added to vehicles, making them progressively more 
complex. These include rear-reversing cameras, air conditioning, navigation systems, and in-car 
entertainment. Most cars in use in the early 2020s are propelled by an internal combustion engine, 
fueled by the combustion of fossil fuels. Electric cars, which were invented early in the history of the 
car, became commercially available in the 2000s and widespread in the 2020s. The transition from 
fossil fuel-powered cars to electric cars features prominently in most climate change mitigation 
scenarios.[12] 
There are costs and benefits to car use. The costs to the individual include acquiring the vehicle, 
interest payments (if the car is financed), repairs and maintenance, fuel, depreciation, driving time, 
parking fees, taxes, and insurance.[13] The costs to society include resources used to produce cars and 
fuel, maintaining roads, land-use, road congestion, air pollution, noise pollution, public health, 
and disposing of the vehicle at the end of its life. Traffic collisions are the largest cause of injury-
related deaths worldwide.[14] Personal benefits include on-demand transportation, mobility, 
independence, and convenience.[15][page needed] Societal benefits include economic benefits, such as job 
and wealth creation from the automotive industry, transportation provision, societal well-being from 
leisure and travel opportunities. People's ability to move flexibly from place to place has far-reaching 
implications for the nature of societies.[16] 
 
